The first physical technique for lifting
is reaching with your Same Side Hand and Foot.
This applies when lifting large,
medium,
or small items.
Many people are surprised that lifting a small item
can result in strain on your back.
It’s not the weight of the object.
It’s the weight of your upper body
combined with poor leverage and balance.
But, when you reach with your Same Side Hand and Foot,
and put your big toe close to the object,
you have better balance,
better leverage,
and your legs do more of the work.
When reaching for items with a handle,
for example luggage,
a tool box,
or bags,
reach with your Same Side Hand and Foot,
put your little toe close to the load.